git clone repository_url - it is a command used to import or copy the repository from Git hub server (VCS) to the local system

git init -git init is one way to start a new project with Git. To initialize a repository, Git creates a hidden directory called .git. That directory stores all of the objects and refs that Git uses and creates as a part of your project's history. This hidden .git directory is what separates a regular directory from a Git repository.

git branch - this command is used in git bash to create a new branch in the repository

git checkout -b branch_name - this command is used to create a branch and swith to the newly created branch

git add filename - this command is used to track and add the created file to the staging area

git add * - this command is used to track and add the created file to the staging area

git add . -this command is used to track and add the multiple created files to the staging area

git status - this command is used to check the status of tracked file, it will check if it is new file or modified file after using git add command

git diff - this command is used to know the changes made in the file

git commit -m "message" The git commit command will save all staged changes, along with a brief description from the user, in a “commit” to the local repository.

git push origin branch_name git push origin will push changes from all local branches to the remote branch

git pull origin branch_name git pull origin will import or pull changes from all remote branches to the local branch

git fetch --all this command pulls all the remote branches and commits

git merge branch_name Git merge is a command that allows you to merge branches from Git. Merging is a common practice for developers. Whether branches are created for testing, bug fixes, or other reasons, merging commits changes to another branch. It takes the contents of a source branch and integrates it with a target branch.

git config --list - The git config list command will show all Git config properties throughout all of the variously scoped Git files.

git config --global user.email "youremail" It is important to configure your Git username and email address as every Git commit will use this information to identify you as the author. You'll need to do this only once as you are using the --global option. It tells Git to always use this information for anything you do on that system.

git remote -v - If you have more than one remote, the command lists them all. For example, a repository with multiple remotes for working with several collaborators